# snakegame
Snake game developed using java swing

In order to develop the Snake game, 6 classes have been created inside the package. The first class is SnakeGame. Here I have developed the border, some properties and functions of the game. Also the keys have been assigned for the object to move. The movement can be done thru the arrow keys or the w, a, s, d keys. Two other keys have been assigned: P for Pause and Enter to reset/restart the game. The snake length will be assigned thru a linked list. At the beginning of the game, the snake will have 3 elements. A while loop has been created to update and render the game and will stop once the game window is closed.
	The game has 3 types of collisions: with the walls, the fruits and his own body. In case of fruit collision the snake body will grow and score will update according to the logic timer which adds value to the fruit. After a fruit is eaten another will appear into a random position. ResetGame function will reset the game and clear the snake head and body from the previous positions. At game start the default direction of the snake will be north. Also the logical timer will be reset. SpawnFruit function will make the fruit appear randomly after checking the free indexes on the board. Function getScore will get the score. The getNextFruitScore will return the score the next fruit is holding.
	The BoardPanel class is used to draw the design of the playing board, the fruit and the snake. It also contains the drawing and direction of the snake movement and the head position. The Clock class is used for representing and calculating the program timer and his updates according to the game stats. The direction class is only used for setting the enum types that are representing the fixed sets of constants used for the snake movement direction. 
	The SidePanel incudes the structure of the side screen panel and is used for the output given in there. The FileType class is also used only for eum types that are representing the fixed set of constants for the type of tiles in the main board.
